---
layout: post
title: "Routine"
date: 2018-07-24 06:20:00 -0500
---

One of the more interesting parts of a morning routine is how much it resembles
its own sort of meditation. As I’ve started waking up early in the day and
going through a more ritualized set of steps, I’ve found myself feeling the same
refreshment and lack of morning mental pressure that I get from meditation.

While I am only now starting to incorporate meditation into my rountine, I’ve
already found pretty big benefits from it. In particular, meditating during my
commute has kept me more focused in the morning. It has caused me to keep
my mind off of the distractions and frustrations of the commute, something that
is very real given the three-quarters of an hour I spend in a tiny space with
hundreds of other commuters.

This morning routine has other benefits, though the most striking are the
improvements in my day from just the different travel time. Getting to the
station at 6 rather than 8 means a few hundred less people to share the train
with, as well as a few dozen more empty seats available. Getting off on the
right foot each morning is very important to keeping your day feeling good
and productive; having to start that day feeling cramped and crowded or
having to spend most of it upright, waiting for a transfer is not conducive
to these feelings.

The other advantage of the early rise is the lack of general distractions,
though this is something other have written about at length and with more
eloquent expression. That said, it’s important to remind yourself just how
many emails, text, and phonecalls you avoid from breaking your flow by just
moving to a part of the day where those things don’t exist. The vast majority
of your coworkers and friends will not be awake with you at 6 am, and even if
they are, the last thing they will be thinking off is what to text you.